Text file: pasted_content.txt
Latest content with line numbers:
1	Role: You are Manus, an expert AI and software integration architect.
2	Objective: Create a comprehensive developer's guide titled "Integrating External Tools with OpenWebUI: A Deep Dive into OpenAPI and the MCP Bridge Pattern". This guide should serve as a detailed technical help file for a developer. The primary goal is to clarify how OpenWebUI uses OpenAPI for tool integration and to provide a practical, verifiable solution for connecting it to systems that use different protocols, like the Model Context Protocol (MCP).
3	Audience: A developer who is familiar with OpenWebUI and LLMs but needs to integrate complex, external tools. They are confused about the difference between OpenAPI tool servers and the MCP protocol.
4	Format Requirements:
5	Use Markdown for the entire document.
6	Use clear, hierarchical headings (#, ##, ###).
7	All code examples must be complete, runnable, and enclosed in Markdown code blocks with the correct language identifier (e.g., python, json, bash).
8	Include a simple architectural diagram using mermaid syntax to illustrate the data flow.
9	End with a "Key Takeaways" summary and a "Troubleshooting" section.
10	Content Structure and Specific Instructions:
11	Part 1: The Native Method - OpenAPI Tool Servers in OpenWebUI
12	Conceptual Overview:
13	Explain that OpenWebUI natively supports function calling by connecting to any OpenAI-compatible API that exposes an OpenAPI (or Swagger) schema.
14	Describe the flow: User Prompt -> OpenWebUI -> LLM (Ollama) -> LLM decides to call a tool -> OpenWebUI Backend makes an API call to the external tool server.
15	Emphasize that this is a stateless, request-response interaction.
16	Verified Example: Building a Simple Weather Tool Server
17	Provide the full Python code for a minimal FastAPI or Flask web server.
18	This server should have one endpoint (e.g., /get_weather) that accepts a city parameter.
19	It must automatically generate an openapi.json schema.
20	Provide the exact curl command to test that the server is working and to retrieve its openapi.json.
21	Show a screenshot or provide the text of the OpenWebUI settings page, detailing exactly how a user would add this tool server.
22	Part 2: Understanding the Model Context Protocol (MCP)
23	Conceptual Overview:
24	Clearly define MCP. Explain that it's a specialized, stateful protocol designed for rich, ongoing communication between an AI agent and a complex environment (like the CUA desktop).
25	Use an analogy: OpenAPI is like a vending machine (one request, one response), while MCP is like an ongoing conversation with a chauffeur who constantly reports the car's status and awaits complex instructions.
26	CRITICAL: State explicitly and clearly that OpenWebUI and its underlying LLM runners (like Ollama) DO NOT natively speak or understand the MCP protocol. This is the most important point of clarification.
27	Part 3: The Solution - The OpenAPI-to-MCP Bridge Pattern
28	Architectural Deep Dive:
29	Explain that to connect OpenWebUI to an MCP-based system like CUA, we must build a "bridge" or "adapter".
30	This bridge is a web server that exposes a simple, stateless OpenAPI endpoint to OpenWebUI, and on the backend, it manages the complex, stateful MCP communication with the CUA server.
31	Include a mermaid diagram of this flow:
32	code
33	Mermaid
34	graph TD
35	    A[User in OpenWebUI] --> B{LLM on Ollama};
36	    B --> C{{OpenAPI Call: /run_command}};
37	    C --> D[Our Custom Bridge API Server];
38	    D --> E{MCP Client Logic};
39	    E --> F[CUA MCP Server];
40	    F --> E;
41	    E --> D;
42	    D --> C;
43	    C --> B;
44	    B --> A;
45	end
46	Verified Example: Building the Bridge API
47	Step 1: The Mock MCP Client. Since you can't run CUA, provide a Python class (MockCUAClient) that simulates the behavior. It should have methods like connect(), execute_command(command: str), and get_observation(). It should maintain a simple state (e.g., a fake file system dictionary).
48	Step 2: The Bridge Server Code. Provide the full Python code for a FastAPI server that:
49	Initializes an instance of the MockCUAClient.
50	Exposes a single POST endpoint: /execute_cua_command. This endpoint should accept a JSON body with a command string.
51	When called, this endpoint uses its MockCUAClient instance to run the command and returns the result.
52	This server must generate its own openapi.json.
53	Step 3: Configuration and Walkthrough.
54	Provide the openapi.json generated by the bridge server.
55	Show how to add this bridge server to OpenWebUI's tool settings.
56	Provide a sample conversation in OpenWebUI (e.g., User: "List the files on the desktop") that triggers the tool, shows the bridge being called, and returns the mock result to the user.
57	Part 4: Summary and Best Practices
58	Key Takeaways:
59	Bulleted list summarizing the core concepts: OpenWebUI uses OpenAPI; MCP is a different, unsupported protocol; the Bridge Pattern is the solution to connect them.
60	Troubleshooting:
61	Common issues like "Tool not being called by the LLM" (hint: model choice, prompt clarity) or "Bridge server connection errors" (hint: CORS, network visibility).
62	